UPDATE.md, before:

# Update the Solution

## Updates to the Kubecost S3 Exporter

The following are considered updates to the Kubecost S3 Exporter:

* Updates to the Kubecost S3 Exporter Python script
* Updates to the Python dependencies of the Kubecost S3 Exporter Python script
* Updates to the content of the `Dockerfile`

When any of the above is changed, follow the below steps to perform an update:

1. Build and push the Docker image.  
You can follow the same steps as in [Step 1: Build and Push the Container Image in the `DEPLOYMENT.md`](DEPLOYMENT.md/.#step-1-build-and-push-the-container-image) file.
2. Depending on how you deployed the K8s resources, choose one of the below:
   1. If you used [Deployment Option 1](DEPLOYMENT.md/.#deployment-option-1):  
      Run `terraform apply` on the Terraform module, from the `deploy` directory.
   2. If you used [Deployment Option 2](DEPLOYMENT.md/.#deployment-option-2):
      Run `helm upgrade` on the new Helm chart.

## Updates to the Helm Chart

In case of updates to the Helm chart only, run `helm upgrade`

## Updates to Resources Created by the Terraform Module

In case of updates to resources created by the Terraform module:  
Running `terraform apply` will detect the changes, show you what's changed, and then you can apply the changes. 

## Updates to the Dashboard

Note for users who customized the dashboard:  
Make sure to keep a copy of the customized dashboard, update the original one, and merge with your customizations.

In case of a new dashboard version, follow the below process to update it.  

1. Run the following command from the `cid` folder:


    cid-cmd update --norecursive --noforce --resources cca.yaml --dashboard-id containers-cost-allocation-cca


Make sure you provide credentials as environment variables or by passing `--profile_name` argument to the above command.  
The output after executing the above command, should be similar to the below:


    CLOUD INTELLIGENCE DASHBOARDS (CID) CLI 0.2.39 Beta
    
    Loading plugins...
        Core loaded
    
    
    Checking AWS environment...
        profile name: <profile_name>
        accountId: <acocunt_id>
        AWS userId: <user_id>
        Region: <region>
    
    
    Discovering deployed dashboards...  [####################################]  100%  "KPI Dashboard" (kpi_dashboard)
    
    Latest template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<latest_version>
    An update is available:
                  Deployed -> Latest
      Version    <deployed_version>      <latest_version>
      VersionId  <deployed_version>      <latest_version>
    Using dataset <data_set_name>: <data_set_id>
    
    Checking for updates...
    Deployed template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<deployed_version>
    Latest template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<latest_version>
    
    Updating containers-cost-allocation-cca
    Update completed
    
    #######
    ####### Containers Cost Allocation (CCA) is available at: https://<region>.quicksight.aws.amazon.com/sn/dashboards/containers-cost-allocation-cca
    #######

2. Login to QuickSight, navigate to "Datasets", click on the `cca_view` dataset, click "EDIT DATASET", and click "SAVE & PUBLISH"

If there's no updated version of the dashbaord, that output should be similar to the below:


    CLOUD INTELLIGENCE DASHBOARDS (CID) CLI 0.2.39 Beta
    
    Loading plugins...
        Core loaded
    
    
    Checking AWS environment...
        profile name: <profile_name>
        accountId: <acocunt_id>
        AWS userId: <user_id>
        Region: <region>
    
    
    Discovering deployed dashboards...  [####################################]  100%  "KPI Dashboard" (kpi_dashboard)
    
    Latest template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<latest_version>
    You are up to date!
      Version    <latest_version>
      VersionId  <latest_version>
    Using dataset <data_set_name>: <data_set_id>
    
    Checking for updates...
    Deployed template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<latest_version>
    Latest template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<latest_version>
    
    ? [confirm-update] No updates available, should I update it anyway?: (Use arrow keys)
       yes
     » no

Select "no", and upon selection, you should see output similar to the below:


    ? [confirm-update] No updates available, should I update it anyway?: no

Commit message:

Added dashboard update step in case of error in finding dataset, and fixed typos

UPDATE.md, after:

# Update the Solution

## Updates to the Kubecost S3 Exporter

The following are considered updates to the Kubecost S3 Exporter:

* Updates to the Kubecost S3 Exporter Python script
* Updates to the Python dependencies of the Kubecost S3 Exporter Python script
* Updates to the content of the `Dockerfile`

When any of the above is changed, follow the below steps to perform an update:

1. Build and push the Docker image.  
You can follow the same steps as in [Step 1: Build and Push the Container Image in the `DEPLOYMENT.md`](DEPLOYMENT.md/.#step-1-build-and-push-the-container-image) file.
2. Depending on how you deployed the K8s resources, choose one of the below:
   1. If you used [Deployment Option 1](DEPLOYMENT.md/.#deployment-option-1):  
      Run `terraform apply` on the Terraform module, from the `deploy` directory.
   2. If you used [Deployment Option 2](DEPLOYMENT.md/.#deployment-option-2):
      Run `helm upgrade` on the new Helm chart.

## Updates to the Helm Chart

In case of updates to the Helm chart only, run `helm upgrade`

## Updates to Resources Created by the Terraform Module

In case of updates to resources created by the Terraform module:  
Running `terraform apply` will detect the changes, show you what's changed, and then you can apply the changes. 

## Updates to the Dashboard

Note for users who customized the dashboard:  
Make sure to keep a copy of the customized dashboard, update the original one, and merge with your customizations.

In case of a new dashboard version, run the following command from the `cid` folder:

    cid-cmd update --norecursive --noforce --resources cca.yaml --dashboard-id containers-cost-allocation-cca


Make sure you provide credentials as environment variables or by passing `--profile_name` argument to the above command.  
The output after executing the above command, should be similar to the below:


    CLOUD INTELLIGENCE DASHBOARDS (CID) CLI 0.2.39 Beta
    
    Loading plugins...
        Core loaded
    
    
    Checking AWS environment...
        profile name: <profile_name>
        accountId: <acocunt_id>
        AWS userId: <user_id>
        Region: <region>
    
    
    Discovering deployed dashboards...  [####################################]  100%  "KPI Dashboard" (kpi_dashboard)
    
    Latest template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<latest_version>
    An update is available:
                  Deployed -> Latest
      Version    <deployed_version>      <latest_version>
      VersionId  <deployed_version>      <latest_version>
    Using dataset <data_set_name>: <data_set_id>
    
    Checking for updates...
    Deployed template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<deployed_version>
    Latest template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<latest_version>
    
    Updating containers-cost-allocation-cca
    Update completed
    
    #######
    ####### Containers Cost Allocation (CCA) is available at: https://<region>.quicksight.aws.amazon.com/sn/dashboards/containers-cost-allocation-cca
    #######

If you get the following error:

      WARNING - Dataset cca_kubecost_view is not found
      CRITICAL - Failed to find a Dataset "cca_kubecost_view" with required fields. Please retry with --update "yes" --force --recursive flags.

Run the update using the following command:

      cid-cmd update --recursive --noforce --resources cca.yaml --dashboard-id containers-cost-allocation-cca

Use the above command only if you get the above error.

If there's no updated version of the dashboard, that output should be similar to the below:


    CLOUD INTELLIGENCE DASHBOARDS (CID) CLI 0.2.39 Beta
    
    Loading plugins...
        Core loaded
    
    
    Checking AWS environment...
        profile name: <profile_name>
        accountId: <acocunt_id>
        AWS userId: <user_id>
        Region: <region>
    
    
    Discovering deployed dashboards...  [####################################]  100%  "KPI Dashboard" (kpi_dashboard)
    
    Latest template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<latest_version>
    You are up to date!
      Version    <latest_version>
      VersionId  <latest_version>
    Using dataset <data_set_name>: <data_set_id>
    
    Checking for updates...
    Deployed template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<latest_version>
    Latest template: arn:aws:quicksight:us-east-1:829389350341:template/containers-cost-allocation-cca/version/<latest_version>
    
    ? [confirm-update] No updates available, should I update it anyway?: (Use arrow keys)
       yes
     » no

Select "no", and upon selection, you should see output similar to the below:


    ? [confirm-update] No updates available, should I update it anyway?: no
